---
layout: page
title: Mechanics
nav_order: 1
parent: Mr. Hicks
mathjax: true
permalink: /mr-hicks/mechanics
---

# Mechanics
{: .no_toc}
Welcome to the mechanics section for Mr. Hicks' class.

Below is a summary page that has all the equations for mechanics.

[Mechanics Summary](/mr-hicks/mechanics/summary){: .btn .btn-outline}

<!-- table of contents for the page -->
## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---
## Mechanics Help - Including Roller Coaster
Okay, here is some more help, starting with a checklist of what to do so that you can get through this in one piece.

**Check List**
  * Don't panic.
  * Look at the [Summary for all of mechanics](/mr-hicks/mechanics/summary){: .btn .btn-outline}
  * Complete the [Roller Coaster Toll](/mr-hicks/mechanics/1.6 RollerCoasterToll/RollerCoasterToll.pdf){: .btn .btn-outline}
    - [Here is a walk through](/mr-hicks/mechanics/1.6.5 RollerCoasterToll Help){: .btn .btn-outline}.  Note, you have to _UNDERSTAND_ the logic of the walk through or the re-assessment will be hard to impossible.
  * You now have two options:
    - Take the re-assessment in class/before school/after school/advisory.  It is like the toll but I switched up the order so that you have to understand the logic and cannot copy straight from the toll.  You can use your notebook, I'll answer questions if you don't understand the question, but you cannot have help from others.  This is a test of what you know.  Your maximum score for the three standards of this unit is a 3.
    - Re-write the roller coaster assessment itself.  If you understood the toll it gives you two different ways that you could calculate the 4 values you need to calculate for the assessment.  All that you then have left is to write your sales pitch so that you cover the other non-calculation requirements in the proficiency scale.  If you re-write the roller coaster assessment, then you can get up to a 4.
      + [Roller Coaster Help](/units/1 mechanics/6 roller coaster#calculation-help){: .btn .btn-outline}

## Motion

[Motion Notes](/mr-hicks/mechanics/1.1-motion.pdf){: .btn .btn-outline}

**Check List**
  * Vocabulary
  * Graph Matching
  * Sketching Motion
  * Calculations
  * Journal
      1. How would you rate your behavior today? (1-10)
      2. On your way to school, when did you have a constant velocity?
      3. When did you speed up?
      4. When did you slow down?
      5. When did you change direction?
      6. Pick a favorite sport - describe the motion in that sport.

## Forces
[Forces Notes](/mr-hicks/mechanics/1.2-forces.pdf){: .btn .btn-outline}

[Forces Lab - Logger Pro File](/mr-hicks/mechanics/1.2 Forces Lab.cmbl){: .btn .btn-outline}

**Check List**
  * Forces
  * $$\Sigma$$ - Sum of all
  * Forces Lab
    - Setup Notebook
    - Lab
    - Fill out [Forces Lab - Excel Document](/mr-hicks/mechanics/1.2 Forces Lab.xlsx){: .btn .btn-outline}
      Download the excel document, and save to your 'Science folder'.
      Ask if you don't have one setup.
    - Fill out [Forces Form](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=2pNwzRMrok2198ZQP0iNs31cX8DUQ_xEjrOkTCSQz29UQVBRSzc4QVlQVEZGTkNKSENYVUpUVDcxOC4u){: .btn .btn-outline}
      Input your data so we can see the results for everybody!
  * Journal
    - Describe the forces and motion of at least 3 carnival rides.


## Momentum
[Momentum Notes](/mr-hicks/mechanics/1.3 momentum.pdf){: .btn .btn-outline}

[Momentum in Space video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4IYDb6K5UF8){: .btn .btn-outline}

[Truck - Car Collision](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YKXz1n4n2tk){: .btn .btn-outline}

[Momentum - Logger Pro File](/mr-hicks/mechanics/1.3 Momentum Lab.cmbl){: .btn .btn-outline}

**Check List**
  * Momentum
  * Conservation of momentum
  * Momentum Lab
      - Setup Notebook
      - Lab
      - Fill out [Momentum Lab - Excel Document](/mr-hicks/mechanics/1.3 Momentum Lab.xlsx){: .btn .btn-outline}
      - Fill out [Momentum Form](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=2pNwzRMrok2198ZQP0iNs31cX8DUQ_xEjrOkTCSQz29UNUJJQ1lMRkxMSkJCMlo3M1JVODJSOFM4NC4u){: .btn .btn-outline}
  * Journal
      - Use conservation of momentum to describe what happens when a stopped car is hit from behind by a teenager texting while driving.

## Energy
[Energy Notes](/mr-hicks/mechanics/1.4 energy.pdf){: .btn .btn-outline}

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/aRhkQTQxm4w" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

[Energy Lab - Logger Pro File](/mr-hicks/mechanics/1.4 Energy Lab.cmbl){: .btn .btn-outline}

**Check List**
  * Energy
  * Conservation of Energy
  * Kinetic Energy
  * Potential Energy
  * Energy Lab
    - Setup Notebook
    - Lab
    - [Energy - Excel](/mr-hicks/mechanics/1.4 Energy Lab.xlsx){: .btn .btn-outline}
    - [Energy - Form](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=2pNwzRMrok2198ZQP0iNs31cX8DUQ_xEjrOkTCSQz29UNkI2OVZQMFVYRkFLUk8xWjhVUVFGOURPUC4u){: .btn .btn-outline}
  * Journal
    - How did I behave in class today?
    - What can I do to better contribute to a positive classroom environment?
    - Go back and look at the data from the momentum lab.  Did mass effect the final velocity for a given distance up the ramp? What evidence do you have?
    - Look at your data today, did the mass of your cart effect the velocity?  What evidence do you have?

## Roller Coaster
[Here is the roller coaster Assessment Handout](/mr-hicks/mechanics/1.5 RollerCoaster.pdf){: .btn .btn-outline}